---
title: Release Notes v8.8.0
description: Product release notes for Azure CycleCloud v8.8.0
author: bwatrous
ms.date: 12/08/2025
ms.author: bewatrou
---

# CycleCloud version 8.8.0


## New Features 

*   CycleCloud offers greatly improved Node health monitoring and reporting via the new HealthAgent (see the [CycleCloud HealthAgent Project](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-healthagent))
*   The CycleCloud HealthAgent may be disabled by setting node configuration property `cyclecloud.healthagent.disable=true`
*   The Cyclecloud Monitoring project provides [Node, GPU and Slurm] metrics exporters for monitoring and alerting via Azure Monitor Workspace and Grafana (see the [CycleCloud Monitoring Project](https://github.com/Azure/cyclecloud-monitoring)).
*   **CycleCloud Slurm cluster changes:**
    *   CycleCloud Slurm supports Slurm version 25.05.2     
    *   CycleCloud Slurm supports Ubuntu 22/24, Alma 8/9, and Rhel 8/9 images. 
    *   CycleCloud Slurm supports ARM64 images and machine types. 
    *   CycleCloud Slurm can automatically enable continuous health-checking, reporting and recovery for nodes through the Slurm HealthCheckProgram, Prolog and Epilog scripts using the CycleCloud HealthAgent.
    *   CycleCloud Slurm offers built-in metrics collection and monitoring in Azure Monitor Workspace via if an Azure Monitor Workspace is configured.
    *   CycleCloud Slurm provides a new `Monitoring` section in the cluster creation UI to support enabling and configuring the new metrics collection and monitoring capabilities (disabled by default).
    *   CycleCloud Slurm configures and starts the slurmrestd service automatically to support monitoring. 
    *   CycleCloud Slurm provides automated topology plugin configuration for both the tree and block topology plugins via the `azslurm topology` CLI for clusters with VMSS topology, a fabric manager that has SHARP enabled, or the NVLink Domain to configure Slurm topology aware scheduling.
    *   CycleCloud Slurm includes a new `azslurmd` system service that synchronizes shared Slurm and CycleCloud state including synchronizing CycleCloud's KeepAlive with Slurm’s native feature.   
    *   Cyclecloud Slurm clusters now include prolog and epilog scripts to enable and cleanup the NVidia IMEX service on a per-job basis for NVidia GPU clusters.  
    *   CycleCloud Slurm clusters no longer require Chef.
*   **Jetpack CLI changes**
    *   The Jetpack CLI includes a new `jetpack props` command which allows for reading and setting node properties from cluster nodes.  Properties are available as the NodeProperties type in the CycleCloud datastore. 
    *   The Jetpack  CLI provides a new `jetpack condition` CLI command used to report Node health conditions to CycleCloud. 
*   **CycleCloud UI Changes**
    *   The cluster `Issues` button now opens full page and aggregates allocation and health issues for easier viewing.
    *   The Node `Show Details` dialog Overview tab has been redesigned and updated with links to Azure Portal and clipboard buttons 
    *   The Node `Show Details` dialog includes a new actions bar that allows users to execute node-specific operations including `Restart` and `Reimage` for node health remediation. 
    *   The Node `Show Details` dialog shows a single node health issue and provides a link to a new `Issues` tab to display all issues    
    *   The Cluster `Activity Log` tab in the Cluster UI has been repositioned next to the `Event Log` pane. 
*   **NVMe device support**
    *   CycleCloud automatically mounts and formats NVMe storage devices on linux nodes on SKUs with NVMe ephemeral disks.   
    *   NVMe ephemeral disks will be mounted at /nvme. 
    *   SKUs with NVMe boot disks (e.g., v6 SKUs and HBv5/6) are now supported.
*   **ARM64 support**
    *   CycleCloud and Jetpack support ARM64 nodes and ARM64 images if the cluster-type provides ARM64 compatible binaries (including Slurm).
    *   ARM64 packages for Jetpack are available for installation in custom images. 
*   CycleCloud now provides `Reimage` and `Restart` Actions on VMSS nodes for node recovery/repair.  
*   The new `Restart` and `Reimage` actions are provided via the new CycleCloud REST APIs: [ `/clusters/{cluster}/nodes/restart`, `/clusters/{cluster}/nodes/reimage`] 
*   CycleCloud nodearrays now support attaching pre-created (aka bring-your-own) VMSS via the new `PredefinedScaleSetId` node attribute. 
*   Linux nodes can be configured to run without using the legacy [Chef framework](https://www.chef.io/) installed for clusters that do not require Chef. 
*   Chef is disabled by default for new Slurm clusters, unless required by additional cluster-init projects. 
*   All filesystem mounts for cluster Nodes are now persisted to /etc/fstab so that filesystems properly remount upon reboot. 
*   Cluster nodes now bind the `/tmp` to a directory on the ephemeral disk on Machine Types with ephemeral disks to reduce OS disk usage.
*   CycleCloud supports Blobfuse2 mounts as a mount type in cluster templates.
*   Node Configuration settings can be removed, and changes will be applied to the nodes upon the next converge.
*   CycleCloud now uses the Azure Compute RP API version 2024-11-01

## Resolved Issues

*   Converge errors were poorly formatted in the UI.
*   The `/c/{cluster_name}` URL for direct-linking to clusters in the UI lead to a blank page for unauthenticated users.
*   Cloud-init errors were reported incorrectly.
*   Cloud-init failures were not limited to errors in the user script.
*   The CycleCloud Slurm `azslurm nodes` command sometimes failed with “missing ‘buckets’ param."
*   Log rotation for `azslurm` did not work if azslurm commands were run from a different user than log owner.
*   CycleCloud Slurm clusters stored private IP addresses on the Slurm node records leading to Slurm errors in certain conditions.
*   The cluster selection was reset when the cluster issues panel refreshed even without new content.
*   The “Keep Alive” toggle in node status report did not work. 
*   Pressing “Enter” on the login page did not submit the form. 
*   Shell types were inconsistent for different images.
*   The jetpack users command gave no output for some cluster types. 
*   The CycleCloud CLI failed installation on MacOS. 
*   The Jetpack `report_issue` CLI command did not upload correctly.
*   "An unspecified error occurred" showed up when VM run commands were used.
*   The `TerminateNotificationTimeout` and `MaxPrice` nodearray attributes would sometimes cause the "Attribute mismatch error" on cluster update even when the value wasn't actually changed. 
*   An incorrect GPU count was reported by Azure for GB200 was reflected in CycleCloud.
*   An incorrect memory size was reported by Azure for GB200 was reflected in CycleCloud.
*   Cyclecloud threw an exception in Cloud.AwaitInstallation phase if no StartTime was set on the Node record. 
*   Cluster nodes might fail a reconverge after a reimage because cluster-init marker files on ephemeral disk were not properly removed by the reimage operation. 
    

## Breaking Changes 

*   Jetpack is now installed by default for custom images. 
    *   To revert to the old behavior set `InstallJetpack=false` on the cluster template node definition. 
*   The CycleCloud Slurm cluster now defaults to `ReturnProxy=false` 
    *   To revert to the original behavior, set the ReturnProxy parameter to true 
*   For better security by default, the CycleCloud Slurm cluster now defaults to `UsePublicNetwork=false` 
    *   To revert to the original behavior, set the UsePublicNetwork parameter to true 
    

## Known Issues 

*   The new Restart and Reimage actions are available ONLY for nodes in nodearrays/VMSS.  Single nodes do not yet support Restart or Reimage.  For single nodes, use the Azure Portal or CLI for restart or reimage.
*    The CycleCloud HPC Pack cluster type fails to converge.
